Did anybody advise you, Fish, on how to study, how to succeed as a student?
If they did, I don't recall it.
I've never heard of anybody of that having been done.
Yes, I don't recall that being done.
As you're beginning as a student, what kind of messages were you sending back home about being an Aggie?
What did you tell your parents?
Of course, it was during football season.
And we had Jari and John Kimbrough, and we had a good team.
And I was very—I had tried to play football in high school, but I was always small.
And I went out for football for four years, and the only time I'd get to play is when we'd be 30 or 40 points ahead in the last two minutes of the game in high school.
And then I'd worked, worked in the oil fields for two years.
And uh, but I, I was never a, a first stringer.
I was never a, anything except a last minute substitution.
And uh, and football is really the only uh,
sport that I cared anything about.
I boxed, and I boxed down at A&M, and I had boxed, uh, started out boxing for the Y when I was in, uh, high school, and we used to have, uh, boxing matches with the Dallas Athletic Club boxers at all of the country clubs around, and I was a good boxer.
And so Dallas Athletic Club gave me an honorary membership to box for them and I got to wear silk trunks instead of my cotton khaki shorts.
And a bunch of the upperclassmen knew it.
And so I always was, I boxed down at A&M in the spring.
Boxing, really, that's about the only sport I tried to participate in.
But as you began to become a real student at A&M, what did you tell your parents about how it was going?
Did you write them or call them on the phone?
No, I wrote.
How often?
And I was required to write every day.
Every day?
Every day.
What did you tell your parents?
Well I told them what was going what I was doing and the friends I was making and that somebody else I met from Dallas and they'd gone to Woodrow Wilson High School or they'd gone to North Dallas or they'd gone to another high school but that they were becoming good friends.
If we had those letters today would they be positive?
Would you be
Did you reflect that you liked A&M?
You were glad you were there?
Oh, yes.
I was glad to get that and could see the seniors that I thought were going to be successes.
And I thought I'd try to mimic those and do like they did.
Did you make some early friends that lasted a long time?
Yes, I did.
Who were some of those dear friends?
Well, let me think, well of course Herbert was, Hank Martin, gosh I can't call the guy that went to Annapolis, he was
He started out at A&M and then got an appointment to Annapolis.
Dick Van Orden is still a good friend of mine.
I said Hank Martin, a very good friend.
Chink, call him Chink.
He's from Texarkana, Keene.
I hadn't thought about some of these people in 30 years.
When you and your buddies went to class, how did you all behave in class?
Were there any pranks that you all tried in class?
I don't recall any of that.
At least I didn't.
It may have happened and I just... Did you go to class regularly?
Yes, I never missed a class.
I was...
During the, working in the oil fields two years, I was anxious to get an education.
You had a good incentive.
Yes, and it was a very good thing for me to, I applied myself and I made pretty good grades too.
that first fall, describe what it was like for a freshman to go see that Aggie football team play football.
What was a... Oh, it was very exciting and we, on Friday, on Saturday morning, we met and we marched to the stadium.
And, of course, freshmen sat at the bottom
sophomores, juniors, seniors.
And we all tried to get either on the first row or the top row of the freshman line.
And you wore uniform to the game?
Yes.
And were there yell practices then?
Oh, yes.
Where did you have those?
On the steps of the Y. They were not at midnight though, were they?
Well, you may have had two a year at midnight yell practice, but the majority of them were after the evening meal and on the steps of the wide.
That first year, did you have any dates come down for a football game?
No, because my girl was going to Stevens.
In Columbia, Missouri?
Yes.
Oh really?
And she was my girl in high school, you know, and she was up there and so we didn't have, Stevens was an all-girls school and they, we'd see each other at Thanksgiving and Christmas and Easter.
Let me give you a bit of trivia I learned
when I was chancellor at the University of Missouri, that they would gather the Stevens girls in the big Union stations in St.
Louis and in Kansas City in September.
Yes.
Then they would charter two entire trains and bring two train loads of Stevens girls to Columbia by sheer accident.
By sheer coincidence, all of the Missouri fraternity boys would just happen to be at the railroad station to carry those girls' bags and to get their names and their room number.
That was the way they would get their first dates with her.
Well, she went, and this was my first wife, she went to Stevens and
You had met her at Highland Park?
Yes.
Okay.
And did you start writing to her regularly also?
Oh, yes.
I wrote probably three times a week and got mail from her and we'd see each other in the summer.
All right.
So you didn't have a date at football game.
Did you guys behave yourselves at the football game or did you sometimes...
Oh we pretty well watched, I think it was our freshman year that we were national champs.
And we were, Jari and John, and we had one of the football players that lived with us, Baby Ron, Leon Ron.
R-O-N-N?
No, R-O-E-N, I believe, R-O-H-N.
R-O-H-N, that's right.
And he was in our outfit.
Did those star athletes go to class and make their grades?
Yes.
There weren't any phony?
Baby's the only one I knew.
We called him Baby Ron.
He was very serious about doing what he did.
He was serious about his class.
work and of course he was a junior or senior when I was a freshman I think he's probably a junior because I had baby was there for two years describe John Kimbrough as a person as far as you what was your impression of him as a person that he was a very nice guy
but I had only met him once or twice and he didn't know who I was and I didn't know who he was really other than by reputation.
Did you all see much of Coach Norton?
Was he very visible on campus?
Not to me he wasn't, but of course I was taking a... You were taking a heavy load.
Yeah, and I was in school, I was in classroom probably seven hours of every day and four hours on Saturdays.
The, did that, early that first semester did you come home to visit?
Yes, probably twice in the semester, though.
No more than that.
How did you get back?
Well, there was a non-reg guy named Duck Florence.
We had two guys from A&M from Dallas that both had cars down there.
There were only about seven or eight cars on the whole campus, Chiefy Butler and Duck Florence.
And they were not in our outfit.
And neither, both of them were juniors and seniors, and they, uh, were not in our outfit, but I used to go to the post office.
I got to know they were there.
I'd pick their mail up and bring their mail back to them and drop it off back on my way to Hart Hall.
Uh, they, they live right
The dormitory right here where the mess hall was there, they lived in this, what was that?
Wasn't legged, but that dormitory there in Hart Hall was down here.
And I'd pick their mail up for them.
And as a consequence, when I ever wanted to go home on the weekend, I had a ride to and from Dallas with either the chief here.
About how long the drive was it then?
It was about a good three and a half hour drive.
What route did you all take?
We went through Corsicana.
Down through Mejia and Grossbeck and Calvert and Hearn.
Right.
Did you ever hitchhike when you were at A&M?
Yeah, when I couldn't get a ride that I didn't have a friend that I could get a ride from, I'd hitchhike.
And we'd hitchhike going to Houston on a weekend when we got to be upperclassmen.
Describe how an Aggie, what was the routine for an Aggie hitchhiker?
Well, you'd get out there and you'd get in line and wait your turn and just, it was unreal.
Out of ten cars that went by, seven of them would stop to pick up an Aggie.
Did you ever have a bad Aggie hitchhiking experience?
Did anything bad ever happen to you?
No, not to me.
So far, no one has had any bad experience.
Did anything amusing, goofy ever happen to you?
Oh I don't remember.
We tried to be very polite and uh cooperative and occasionally uh particularly going from school to Dallas uh a guy would stop and say, I want a senior to drive me.
And regardless of where the senior was, the first senior got in.
And they'd frequently, I'd say that would happen, one out of ten guys that would stop to let you in, they'd want a senior to drive.
If you were leaving Dallas to go back to College Station, where in the Dallas area was the best place to get a ride?
I don't know because I never hitchhiked down.
Oh, okay.
Because I always came home with either Duck or Chiefy.
They had cars.
Those were the, I don't believe there were seven or eight guys that had cars.
Two of them were from Dallas, and I made friends with both of them, and they were upperclassmen.
That first fall, do you remember going on a court trip?
Yes.
Describe that.
Fort Worth was the court trip I went to.
I was in Dallas and just went over for the game.
How did you feel marching down that street as an Aggie?
I felt proud.
I was glad to be an Aggie and thought we looked good.
The crowds always were very appreciative of the A&M Corps as it marched for whatever purpose.
And did you all behave yourselves?
Yes, we did.
I see.
That would have been an interesting game because Davey O'Brien would have been the TCU quarterback.
good show and let's see the SMU game that year Preston Johnson would have been the SMU star I remember that name I but I don't remember much about the game at that game when
Well, this would be in my junior and senior years.
I'd have a date.
At this time, Cherry was back at home, and I'd have a date with her.
What would you all do after the game?
Where would you all go for a good time?
Generally we'd go to Dallas Country Club.
She was a member.
Our family weren't members of the country club, but Cherry's family was members of the country club.
And we'd go over there and on Friday evening and Saturday evening they'd have a band playing and we'd dance and we knew a lot of the people that were there.
Back that freshman year was the court trip, do you remember when the court trip was to Austin or Houston?
Fort Worth up here?
I think it was probably Houston because I stayed with Rosie Townsend
his at his house and it would have been my freshman year that I'd have done that.
And you hadn't been to Houston before had you?
Probably driving through when we were kids going to Galveston but I hadn't been as a grown-up that I knew anything about.
How did you do academically that first semester?
I made pretty good grades.
I was a good student.
So that you felt good when you came home for Christmas.
Yeah.
And Mom and Dad, they were pleased.
They were very pleased.
But see, I worked two years and I got a little matured.
That's what I was thinking.
And the time I went to school, I recognized that
The guys that had an education and knew something were the guys that I had been working for.
All right, at the end of your freshman year, the spring of 1940, the war is on in Europe.
Right.
Did you and your buddies talk about that much?
No, no, the war was on in Europe, but we weren't in it.
Yes, sir.
Did you all talk about that much?
Very little.
What did you do at the end of your first year in the summer?
You didn't go to summer camp, ROTC camp, did you?
No, I did not.
Who'd you work for?
Continental Supply Company.
And I was, I worked for Continental Supply Company.
And my job was helping to set pumping units,
and on the Roustabout Gang, and we were setting pumping units and building tank batteries.
Where did that take you?
I was primarily working out of Wichita Falls, and we were in the Wichita Falls area.
Where it never gets hot in the summer.
We lived in Wichita Falls in the summer and fall of 41.
Oh, you did?
Yes, sir.
Well, I was probably there living in a bunkhouse for Continental Supply Company.
Right, you go back in the fall then of 1940, you're still a petroleum engineer, and you're pleased at being at A&M.
You stayed on petroleum, you stayed on that same major.
Right.
Who did you turn to for advice as to what courses to take?
Well pretty well you had required courses and you said on there you may have had one optional course a semester and I probably took advice from my freshman year Bill Slayton who was a company commander or battery commander
And he had dated Betty, my sister, and had gone to high school.
He was ahead of me, but I knew who he was, and he knew who I was.
And my sister was a real popular girl, so all of the older people in her class knew me as Betty's little brother, and they treated me very nicely.
The routine there, so you're studying, you're doing well.
Who were the campus leaders at that time?
Was Gib Gilchrist was dean of engineering?
I think he was dean of engineering.
I didn't know him.
Who was president?
I think it was Walton.
Did y'all ever see?
Dr. Walton?
Never did.
I never did.
And nobody played any jokes on the president's house or anything like that?
No, his house was on campus.
But to my knowledge, and let me say this, my freshman year was when we opened what we call the new area.
That's the new dorm.
What were they like?
You very seldom got over there.
They were so far away from
Hart Hall, but they were in a line and they were all grouped together.
Did you all think those were pretty fancy dorms?
We thought they were very fancy dorms.
As you were settling in as a sophomore, how did you treat freshmen?
What kind of a sophomore were you?
I was
I recognized early that some of the kids that came there were young.
Now see, I had worked two years before I had gotten out of high school to work two years before I went to A&M.
And some of the kids were young and inexperienced and you tried to
tell them it was, uh, their parents were spending a lot of money to send them down there and it was their duty to do the right thing and be attentive and attend class and, uh, do their work and make it worthwhile for their parents and that their parents were counting on them to do that and those kind of lectures.
Did you use the board ever?
Yes, sir.
What kind of board did you use?
I had a baseball bat that was, uh,
flattened off like that, slap happy.
You would be most likely to use that paddle after they'd done what?
If they had made bad grades.
I'd use it.
If they were skipping class, going to class, I'd use the board.
And this is my sophomore year.
Yes, sir.
My junior year, I was first sergeant, and I used it for a lot of things then.
And I was CEO of the Outfit my senior year, and didn't really do use it much my senior year.
Were those students in classes behind you, were they allowed to call you by your nickname?
No.
Mr. Bright.
Did they?
Well, now sophomores were.
Okay.
But freshmen couldn't.
Did they sometimes do it to see how you would react?
I don't recall that.
Okay, that one.
Describe the student body of the four years you were at A&M.
Describe the student body in general.
Where did they come from?
What kind of families?
What kind of income?
What kind of attitudes?
Well, generally I think the good 90 to 95 percent were from Texas.
A few from Louisiana.
Oklahoma and New Mexico.
It seemed that they had a group from Mexico always, but by that group I'm talking about 15 or 20 people.
And what, as far as you know, what led them to be at A&M?
Did they come up to major in certain subjects?
I don't know what led them.
I don't know whether they,
We never had one of them in our outfit.
They took mostly ag courses.
And they were not poor boys, were they?
No.
But they took mostly agricultural courses and they were over in the new area.
And ours were primarily engineers in the coast artillery.
All right, they were, the student, most of them were from Texas.
Were they country boys or city boys or what?
In the... No, in general.
The people that came to Indian?
Yes, sir.
Uh, I'd say they were prime, they were probably, uh, 60 to 65 percent, uh, country and maybe 25, 30 percent, uh, city, Dallas, Houston, uh, Wichita Falls, Midland, Lubbock,
What kinds of family income did they come from?
Mostly middle to lower.
Did they know what hard work was?
Not the kind of hard work that I'd done, you know.
You had very few people that were out two years before they went to college.
And I was out because my sister was in school and our family couldn't afford but one in school at a time.
And were there some, in terms of their national ancestry,
Was there a mix?
Were there German and Czech and Polish?
Was there a wide variety of... Oh, I think there were, and now that you mention that, I think you used to tease them about where they might be from.
And this was primarily European and Mexican.
I don't recall any Central Americans, but there may have been a few from Panama.
Were there any Jewish boys?
Yes.
Actually, my roommate, of course, Herbert, he had gone a year at SMU.
He was half Jewish.
He couldn't get in the fraternity, and that's why he switched to A&M.
uh now and were were all of these different people accepted as real Aggies yeah that's so marvelous why was that true what did oh I don't know it seemed like uh it was A&M against the world you know and you were uh Aggie born and Aggie bred and when I die being Aggie dead that
Do you remember going to your first Silver Taps?
Yeah.
describe that how describe the routine well I did not know what it was but they told me we're having silver taps tonight and I think it was happened at 10 o'clock or something like I don't remember what it was but you went out and stood and they did silver taps from the academic building I guess they still do I don't know and it was an Aggie and he had died and uh
Everybody was supposed to say a prayer for him.
And Bill Slayton said he was better commander then my freshman year.
And he said, no horseplay, no nothing.
We're honoring the memory of an Aggie.
And so we go out and stand outside of Hart Hall and they play silver taps.
And you get through, and you say a little prayer, and the guys that were, I guess, real realistic, they'd go, you know, say a little cross, say a little prayer.
And everybody took it seriously.
Nobody did any pranks.
Oh, no.
In your years as an A&M student, did you ever lose a close friend?
No, I never lost a close friend.
I lost a lot of people I knew, but never real that were running mates.
And that tradition did not vary, did it?
No, not during my career.
That was a unifying event.
Did you go to any kind of religious activities while you were at A&M?
Yes, we were Episcopalians and I went to the church either once or twice but it was a little bit out of the way and it was inconvenient to go to and
I didn't.
So you didn't go regularly on Sunday?
No.
What was your routine on a Sunday?
Did you sleep in?